So into the last lecture we mentioned that we need to add metadata to our post.
But at the same time we don't need to use this Custom Fields box because it's not very practical and
also because it's actually removed in the new WordPress editor.
So let's go to our code now and let's create a new file in the lib folder.
Now let's call it metaboxes.php.
And don't forget to include it in your PHP in your functions.php file.
And let's open a PHP tag. So of course as we do in everything in WordPress we use actions. So let's have  the new
action and the action to add meta boxes is called "add_meta_boxes". And let's give it a function
"_themename".
Let's call it "add_meta_box". And let's create this function.
So this function will call another function
that is called add_meta_box().
And it takes a lot of arguments as you can see.
So the first one is a unique ID for this box.
So let's give it a prefixed ID and let's call it "post_meta_box".
And it also needs a "title". And the title will be what appears here instead of the Excerpt here.
So let's call it.
Maybe Post Settings and then a callback. And the callback is a function that we will create and it will
be responsible for rendering the content inside this meta box.
So it will basically be responsible for creating the HTML fields inside this meta box.
So let's choose a name and then we will create this function.
So "_themename_" and let's call it "post_metabox_html"  as it should return HTML for the meta box. And
the "screen" is which post types
you would like this meta box to appear in. So it could be an array of post types.
So we can have a "post" and the "page". And these will be the post types that we would like this meta box to appear in.
Or it could be just a string
if we have only one post type. So let's assume we would like to add it just in the post.
So let's give it a string "post".
And the "context" is where would you like this box to appear.
So this could be after the post or in the side.
So this could be either "normal" or "side" or "advanced".
And the difference between "normal" and "advance" both will appear after the content but "advance" will
appear after the "normal".
So if there are two meta boxes,
one is normal and one advance, the "normal" will appear first.
So it doesn't matter.
Now let's give it "normal" and the "priority".
This is obviously the priority of the order which the meta box will appear.
So let's give it a "default" priority. And "callback_args"
"callback_args" are extra arguments
you'd like to pass to this function. And you probably won't need to pass extra arguments or at least
in our case.
So let's remove this for now and let's see now what this will do.
"normal".
And as you can see we now have a meta box Post Settings and it's throwing an error here because we
did not define this function yet.
So that's not a problem.
So let's now just try and change this to "side".
And now as you can see it's moved to the side here.
This option actually won't make any difference in Gutenberg, the new editor when I tested. It will
always appear after the post.
So if you're planning to support Gutenberg this option won't really matter.
Let's keep it "normal" for now.
So let's now create this function which will be responsible for theHTML output of the meta box.
And I think we'll have a lot of HTML here.
Personally I prefer to close the PHP and type the HTML instead of you know echoing PHP strings.
So let's create our first field. Let's open a P tag. And to create this field it's no different than creating a
normal HTML field for a form.
So we have the LABEL and this LABEL will be for a certain input.
So let's leave it for now until we create an INPUT. And let's open PHP now to output the text because
we need to escape it and translate it.
So let's create a field for a subtitle for the post for instance.
So let's call it "Subtitle".
And "_themename". And close the LABEL And then in a new line let's create our INPUT.
And we'll need type to be text for this one. And let's choose a name for this field. And the name of
the field is different than the name of the meta key.
So just keep this in mind and we'll see what this means in a moment.
So let's call this "_themename_post_subtitle_field".
And let's give it an ID with the same name.
Just use it in the FOR here.
So let's see how this will look like. As you can see you have a field and a label.
So let's give.
This is a WordPress class called "widefat" for the input. And this will make the input take the full width.
So I think that's a little better.
So now we have our fields.
But let's type anything in it and save.
And nothing will be saved. So WordPress does not automatically save your data.
Somehow we need to handle this manually.
So whatever you type here will be available in the super global variable
$_POST exactly when you are submitting a normal HTML form using PHP. You get the fields in the super
global $_POST.
So this will be exactly the same here when we save the post.
These fields that we type here will be available in the super global $_POST.
But when can we access this $_POST super global.
It's by using an action called save_post(). And this action will be triggered every time you save a post.
So let's add action and "save_post". And let's add a new function to handle saving a post.
Let's call it "_themename_save_post_metabox". And this action receives two arguments.
So you have to specify the number of arguments here and let's create this function.
So the two arguments that this function will receive are the $post_id of the post that is being saved
and the $post object of the same post.
So in this function we will have the our fields available in the $_POST super global.
So we'll have this field available in $_POST and this field.
And we have the $post and the $post_id.
So how can we add meta information using what we have.
So what we need to do is just open the database again.
We need to add a new field in this table.
Right?
And we have the post ID and we have the value in the $_POST super global and will choose any arbitrary
name for the key and add a new value in this table.
So to do that WordPress provide a function called add_post_meta(). But this function every time you call it,
it will add multiple values for the same meta key as we saw in the last lecture.
But in our case we only need the last value the user typed to be saved.
We don't need to store the value each time
the user saves. So to do that we can use another function called update_post_meta().
And this will check first
in the wp_meta table.
If the meta key already exists instead of adding another one it will update the one that already exists.
So let's use this function. But before we do that let's first make sure that this key exists in the $_POST
super global. So we can use isset() or we can use array_key_exists().
So this will check if this key
exists in the $_POST super global.
And if so we will use this value to add, sorry, to add  the post meta. And the update_post_meta() also if you are
saving for the first time and we don't have the meta key in the database yet it will create a new
one. And if it finds an existing one it will update it
as we mentioned. So we have the $post_id here and we have the "meta_key".
We don't have it but we can choose a name for it.
So let's call it "__themename_".
And I'll tell you why two "_" in a moment.
So "_themename_", and let's call it "post_subtitle".
So remember when I told you the meta key is not the same as the field name here.
The field name is just the name of this input in the form that you are submitting.
It should be available in the $_POST super global. However the meta key is the key that we will choose when we're
saving the meta data in the database.
So there are two different things.
So let's call it just "_themename_meta_subtitle", and the value will be this whatever the user typed. And forth argument
is it's only important if you have multiple meta values for the same meta keys and you want to update
a certain value of them.
So in our case we will only have one meta value for every meta key so it'ss not important.
We're having a bracket missing.
And let's clean this, add some lines.
And let's now try and save the field.
So let's go to the posts and let's type something and save.
And you find nothing here but let's go to the database. And let's go to the third page. Let's search for
"_themename" and as you can see we have our key and value saved. So let's try and change it.
Let's type this time "test"
And let's refresh.
And as you can see the value is updated and at the same time it did not add another value to the same
meta key as we saw in the last lecture.
So let's see why I added two "_" here before I forget.
So remember in the, when we added the custom field this way.
If you add a field name without an "_" it will appear here and you can edit your field from here.
But we don't need that.
We only need to edit our field using our meta boxes. So to hide your field from this dropdown here
you add an "_" before it's key.
But the reason we added two "_" is because when we build our theme for production the "_themename"
will be replaced with your theme name.
So the extra "_" is to hide this field from the Custom Fields dropdown.
So let's do one final thing for this lecture. We need the value that we saved to appear here as a value
for the input.
So let's before closing the PHP, create a new variable and call it $subtitle.
So we need to get the value from the database. So we can use get_post_meta() as we did in the last lecture.
And this takes the ID and you can get the ID in the HTML callback.
We get the post object here as an argument. So we can just call or retrieve the ID of the post using
the $post object  this way.
And then it takes the key and this key. Remember that is different from the field name. And as we saw in the last lecture
this will return an array.
But the value itself.
And in our case you are updating  the post meta.
So this array will always contain just one key, right?.
So if we add the third argument here and set it to "true" , sorry.
This will return the first value in the array.
So inside the $subtitle now we have the value that we typed. And let's just add it as a value for the
input.
So remember we're outputting some variable in an HTML attribute.
So we should esc_attr() and then the value. And also before saving this value to the database using
update_post_meta().
Make sure you remove any HTML or any unallowed tags using one of the sanitization functions.
So I'm gonna use, since we are having a text field I'm gonna use sanitize_text _field.
And as you already know this will prevent any unwanted HTML from being saved in the database.
So let's try now.
And as you can see we have the value here. Let's try and update it.
And it's still there.
So that's great.
We still have a problem though.
So remember in the last lecture we mentioned that whenever you are submitting data to the database or deleting
the post or anything like that you need to check for user capabilities.
And you also need to add a nonce field to make sure that  the user intended to press save
in this case.
So we learned how to add an nonce field in a GET request in the URL, let's see in the next lecture how to
add a nonce field in the form or in the post request. And we'll also check for user capabilities.
So let's do that in the next lecture.